MDrive: Benchmarking Closed-Loop Cooperative
Driving for End-to-End Multi-agent Systems
Marco Coscoy∗ Zewei Zhou*,‡ Seth Z. Zhao*,‡ Henry Wei Angela Magtoto Johnson Liu
Rui Song† Walter Zimmer Zhiyu Huang Chen Tang Bolei Zhou Jiaqi Ma
University of California, Los Angeles
https://mdrive-challenge.github.io/
Open-loopEvaluation
Closed-loopEvaluation
IfitsuddenlyturningReactive
Static
PerceptionSharing
DecisionNegotiation
Occlusion
❎Perc.Range
🔼
PerceptionPerceptionPlanningPlanning
PerceptionPerceptionPlanningPlanning
Conflict
❎GlobalOptimization
🔼
MDriveClosed-Loop Cooperative Driving Benchmark & ToolboxMDrive-V2XPnPReal2SimScenarios&Toolbox
MDrive-IntersectionScenarios&AgenticScenarioGenToolbox
AgenticScenarioProposal
QualityCheck
MDrive-InterDriveandHuman-in-loopInterface
SimulationController
HumanDemonstration
Figure 1:MDrive Overview.MDrive is a closed-loop cooperative driving benchmark. To the best of
our knowledge, it is the first benchmark to systematically evaluate the real benefits of multi-agent
cooperation, including the perception sharing and decision negotiation. MDrive benchmarks include
three scenario buckets: MDrive-V2XPnP Real2Sim scenario reconstructed from real-world V2X
driving logs, MDrive-Intersection generated by the agentic scenario proposer, and MDrive-InterDrive.
The Real2Sim, agentic scenario generation, and human-in-loop toolbox of MDrive is released.
Abstract
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication has emerged as a promising paradigm
for autonomous driving, enabling connected agents to share complementary per-
ception information and negotiate with each other to benefit planning. Existing
V2X benchmarks, however, fall short in two ways: (i) open-loop evaluations fail
to capture the inherently closed-loop nature of driving, leading to evaluation gaps,
∗Equal contributions. ‡Project leads. Emails:{mcoscoy, zeweizhou, sethzhao506}@ucla.edu.
†Corresponding author. Email:rruisong@ucla.edu.
Preprint.
arXiv:2605.10904v1  [cs.RO]  11 May 2026
and (ii) current closed-loop evaluations lack behavioral and interactive diversity
to reflect real-world driving. Thus, it is still unclear theextent of benefitsof multi-
agent systems for closed-loop driving. In this paper, we introduceMDrive, a
closed-loop cooperative driving benchmark comprising 225 scenarios grounded in
both NHTSA pre-crash typologies and real-world V2X datasets. Our benchmark
results demonstrate that multi-agent systems are generally better than single-agent
counterparts. However, current multi-agent systems still face two important chal-
lenges: (i) perception sharing enhances perceptions, but doesn’t always translate
to better planning; (ii) negotiation improves planning performance but harms it
in complex and dense traffic scenarios. MDrive further provides an open-source
toolbox for scenario generation, Real2Sim conversion, and human-in-the-loop
simulation. Together, MDrive establishes a reproducible foundation for evaluating
and improving the generalization and robustness of cooperative driving systems.
1 Introduction
Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication has emerged as a promising paradigm for multi-agent
driving systems [1–4], extending autonomous driving from isolated single-agent operation to coop-
erative perception and negotiation. As illustrated in Fig. 1, by allowing agents to share perception
cues (i.e., perception sharing) and intent or planning information (i.e., decision negotiation), V2X
communication can expand the effective perception range, mitigate occlusion [5–9, 4, 10], and enable
more proactive planning beyond passive single-agent decision making [ 11, 12]. However, most
previous work has focused on demonstrating gains in multi-agent open-loop driving metrics [13–15],
which fails to reflect actual performance gains in the inherently closed-loop task of driving [16]. This
motivates a fundamental question:To what extent does multi-agent cooperation benefit closed-loop
driving, and where do these gains come from?
To answer this question, we argue that existing evaluation protocols are insufficient for benchmarking
multi-agent cooperative driving in closed-loop settings. We identify two key gaps. First, prevailing
open-loop protocols for cooperative perception and prediction [5–9, 4, 10] evaluate static outputs in
non-reactive environments. Those protocols do not test whether improved perception or prediction
leads to better closed-loop driving. Therefore, such protocols miss core closed-loop abilities, such as
failure recovery and adaptation to interactive agents, and often correlate weakly with closed-loop
performance [16–19], as also shown in our experiments in Section 5.1. Second, existing closed-
loop multi-agent benchmarks still lack sufficient realism and diversity, as illustrated in Table 1.
InterDrive [20] is the most relevant existing benchmark to our setting, but its scenarios are primarily
geared toward negotiation-style interactions among a small number of cooperating agents. Its
scenarios do not model background traffic and cover only limited road layouts. This simplified
setting remains far from realistic urban driving, making it difficult to evaluate the robustness and
generalizability of cooperative driving systems [20, 21].
To close these gaps, we introduceMDrive, a closed-loop cooperative driving benchmark for system-
atically evaluating the real benefits of multi-agent cooperation. MDrive comprises 225 multi-agent
scenarios drawn from two sources: (i) NHTSA pre-crash typologies [22] and curated long-tail interac-
tion categories such as work zones, roundabouts, unprotected left turns, and zipper merges, generated
through an agentic scenario synthesis pipeline; and (ii) Reactive scenarios converted from real-world
V2X driving logs through a Real-to-Simulation (Real2Sim) pipeline. These scenarios expose models
to realistic background traffic that is difficult to obtain from purely synthetic benchmarks. Alongside
the MDrive benchmark, we releaseMDrive-Toolbox, an open-source pipeline for agentic scenario
generation, Real2Sim conversion, and a human-in-the-loop interface, lowering the barrier for the
community to build, extend, and customize closed-loop cooperative driving benchmarks.
With the aforementioned scenario sources and interfaces, we first examine whether multi-agent
systems outperform single-agent systems. We find a clear overall advantage for multi-agent systems,
with both perception-sharing and negotiation-based paradigms outperforming their single-agent
counterparts on average. However, benchmarking on MDrive reveals that these two multi-agent
paradigms still suffer from the following limitations. First, for cooperative perception, our findings
challenge the prevailing assumption that better perception always leads to better planning. Specifically,
we observe that even though perception sharing can compensate for limited observability, it does
not guarantee safe decision-making in ambiguous situations. This is related to recent findings [23,
2
Table 1:Comparisons with existing end-to-end open-loop and closed-loop driving benchmarks.
Bg. Actors: background actors; Reactive: reactive simulation; Perc. Sharing: perception sharing.
Benchmark E2E Closed-loop Bg. Actors Reactive Perc. Sharing Negotiation Scenario Gen.
Single-agent Driving Benchmarks
nuPlan [25] × ×✓× × × Log-replay
NA VSIM [26, 27] ✓×✓× × × Log-replay
Bench2Drive [19] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ × × Hand-crafted
HUGSIM [28] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ × × Real-world Data
DriveArena [29] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ × × Real-world Data
Fail2Drive [24] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ × × Hand-crafted
BridgeSim [16] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ × × Real2Sim
Multi-agent Driving Benchmarks
RiskMM [15] ✓×✓× ✓× Real-world Data
V2Xverse [30] ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓× Hand-crafted
InterDrive [20] ✓ ✓× × ×✓ Hand-crafted
MDrive
 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Real2Sim, Agentic-Gen
24, 16] that current open-loop training through offline demonstrations is still insufficient to ensure
generalizable closed-loop planning capabilities. On the other hand, we find that the benefits from the
negotiation-based method are limited to particular scenarios with sparse and simple traffic, as current
language-based agent often make hallucinated decisions in complex and dense traffic scenarios with
rich urban interaction (see Section 4.2). We further compare the negotiation method to a real human
expert (see Section 5.2) and find that it still exhibits a large behavior gap in decision-making under
complex interaction scenarios.
Taken together, MDrive addresses existing evaluation gaps in assessing the closed-loop driving
capabilities of multi-agent systems. Our analysis further reveals the benefits and remaining challenges
of multi-agent cooperation in current models. Our key contributions can be summarized as follows:
1. We proposeMDrive, a closed-loop cooperative driving benchmark for end-to-end multi-agent sys-
tems. MDrive contains 225 diverse scenarios with different interactivity levels, covering Real2Sim
scenes converted from real-world V2X datasets and agentic-generated scenarios grounded in
predefined interaction categories and NHTSA standards.
2. We releaseMDrive-Toolbox, an open-source toolbox for scalable benchmark construction,
integrating agentic scenario generation, Real2Sim conversion, and human-in-the-loop interface.
3. We conduct extensive analysis and demonstrate the benefits of cooperation in planning with
perception sharing and decision negotiation, and discuss their failure cases. Our cross-paradigm
evaluation further reveals the limitations of open-loop metrics and highlights the necessity of
closed-loop evaluation for cooperative driving systems.
2 Related Work
End-to-end Autonomous Driving.Traditional autonomous driving systems follow a modular
paradigm with independent perception [31, 32], prediction [33–35], and planning [36, 37] components.
While this structure is easier to design and maintain, it is limited by error accumulation across modules
[38]. In contrast, end-to-end approaches have become the mainstream, which eliminate inter-module
error propagation, simplify the system, and enable joint optimization for the final planning task [39–
42]. However, current paradigms primarily focus on single-agent systems and remain constrained
by local perception and passive planning [43, 23]. Long-tail scenarios have become a key focus in
autonomous driving [24, 44]. However, the potential of multi-agent systems, i.e., perception sharing
and decision negotiation, especially in scenarios where existing systems fail, remains underexplored.
Cooperative Driving System.Multi-agent systems facilitate seamless information sharing and
cooperative driving between CA Vs and intelligent infrastructure, offering a promising paradigm
beyond single-agent systems [45–49]. Despite this potential, current research remains in cooperative
perception [50, 51], which is the initial stage. How to extend these cooperative benefits to downstream
3
1)Real2SimIntersection2)Real2SimCorridor3)Real2SimMerge5)Pre-crashScenario4)InterDriveScenario
9)ConstructionZone7)LaneChange 10)Overtaking
15)Intersection Deadlock 11)Roundabout13)On-RampMerge
6)Pedestrian Crosswalk
8)BlockedLane
14)UnsignalizedEntry
12)Unprotected Left Turn
Figure 2:MDrive Representative Scenarios.The colorful lines in each scenario represent the target
routes as the local planning reference for CA Vs. (1-3) showcaseMDrive-V2XPnPReal2Sim scenarios
constructed from real-world driving logs, capturing authentic scenario layouts and agent behaviors.
(4) illustrates anMDrive-Interdrivescenario, serving as an in-domain reference without background
actors. The remaining cases (5-15) highlightMDrive-Interaction, which covers three interactivity
levels:Static Avoidance(e.g., (7) construction zone, (8) blocked lane, and (10) overtaking),Dynamic
Avoidance(e.g., (6) pedestrian crosswalk), andDynamic Coordination(e.g., (5,9,11-15)). MDrive
also covers different weather and light conditions, such as the night (11), and a rainy day in (7).
tasks, especially the final planning task, is the core question for the existing work. The V2XPnP [5]
and TurboTrain [10] proposed a spatial-temporal feature fusion framework, benchmark, and training
strategy as the foundation for the downstream task. CooperTrack [ 1] explores the downstream
tracking task. Although some emerging frameworks have begun investigating open-loop perception
sharing [11, 52, 53] and closed-loop negotiation [20, 21] for planning, how the driving performance
is benefited by V2X with perception sharing and decision negotiation remains an open question.
Driving Simulators and Benchmarks.Driving simulators and benchmarks offer efficient, safe,
and flexible environments for model development [ 54], particularly for closed-loop simulations
that demand reactive behaviors beyond the scope of static driving logs. As Table 1 shows, while
traditional high-fidelity simulators like CARLA [55], MetaDrive [56], and DeepDrive [57] provide
configurable environments and physical modeling, they are often constrained by handcrafted assets
and limited visual realism. To bridge this gap, recent data-driven and generative frameworks, notably
HUGSIM [28] and RAD [58], leverage 3D Gaussian Splatting [59–63] for photorealistic, real-time
reconstruction. However, within the domain of cooperative driving, the intricacies of multi-agent
perception and planning make the CARLA-based platforms the mainstream [64, 65]. However, there
remains a critical void: a lack of complex scenarios for evaluating perception sharing and decision
negotiation, and the absence of a comprehensive closed-loop benchmark for cooperative driving.
3 MDrive Benchmark
MDrive is a closed-loop cooperative driving benchmark built on CARLA [ 55] simulator, which
aims to provide broad, structured coverage of multi-agent scenarios to bridge the existing evaluation
gap. MDrive includes 225 scenarios and combines three complementary scenario buckets: 1)
4
MDrive-Interdrive: in-domain performance of existing models without background actors; 2)MDrive-
Interaction: interaction scenarios that enrich background actors interactivity and diversity; 3)MDrive-
V2XPnPReal2Sim scenarios for testing models under real-world scenario layout and behaviors.
3.1 Scenario Composition
MDrive-Interdrive.This bucket is adopted from the InterDrive benchmark [ 20] without modifica-
tions. It contributes 46 interactive multi-agent scenarios, such as intersection crossing, lane merging,
and lane changing, in which agents are assigned conflicting or tightly coupled routes, but without any
background actors. This bucket serves as an in-domain reference.
MDrive-Interaction.This bucket contributes 112 scenarios, aiming at evaluating driving systems
under three levels of interactivities: 1)Static Avoidance, where the driving system needs to traverse
through construction zones areas and avoid static obstacles or perform local replan; 2)Dynamic
Avoidance, where the driving system needs to react to dynamic safety-critical scenarios such as
yielding to vulnerable road users (VRUs) in intersection areas; 3)Dynamic Coordination, where
agent-wise coordination and negotiation is needed for safe and efficient traversal, such as highway
merging. The three levels of interactivities are distributed across 11 interaction categories, such as
work zones, roundabouts, pedestrian interactions, zipper merges, and overtaking. Each scenario is
diverse in terms of limited visibility, occlusion, and collision risk in configurations where single-agent
sensing is provably insufficient and scenarios are grounded in NHTSA pre-crash typologies [22]. For
each interaction category, scenarios are created by domain experts and are paired with expert driver
demonstrations via our human-in-the-loop interface (see Section 3.3). For example, a human driver
completes each scenario via joystick takeover, and the resulting state-control trajectory is logged as a
collision-free reference rollout. We then use those human demonstrations to scale our scenarios via
an agentic scenario generation pipeline (see Section 3.3), which we leverage an LLM agent to emit a
structured schema for scenario creations and convert them as CARLA routes and assets.
MDrive-V2XPnP.This bucket is obtained by converting 67 annotated real-world driving logs from
the V2XPnP dataset [5], which are characterized by density-heavy intersections and vulnerable-road-
user behaviors with multiple CA Vs and intelligent infrastructures, into CARLA-executable scenarios
via our Real2Sim pipeline (see Section 3.3). The CA V and actor trajectories are reconstructed through
a unified scenario description and coordinate transformation, then snapped to the digital-twin lane
graph in CARLA for closed-loop execution. This bucket injects multi-agent real-world scenarios and
behaviors that are different from previous benchmarks’ hand-crafted or simulation-based testing.
Taken together, as Fig. 2 shows, the three scenario buckets cover coordination-heavy interactive
scenarios, perception-limited safety-critical scenarios, balanced language-grounded category expan-
sion, and Real2Sim scenarios. This design allows MDrive to combine targeted preset cases, broader
category coverage, and more realistic multi-actor behavior within a single benchmark.
3.2 Scenario Statistics and Coverage
Table 2:MDrive Scenario Distribution. RL:
route length; HC: heading change. Mean actors
excludes CA Vs and infrastructures.
Bucket Count CA V RL (m) HC (deg) Actors
MDrive-InterDrive 46 3.80 51.83 65.85 0.00
MDrive-Interaction 112 4.11 91.3 55.4 1.58
MDrive-V2XPnP 67 1.80 45.68 60.92 83.88
Table 2 summarizes the composition of MDrive.
The three scenario buckets exhibit distinct struc-
tural profiles, and we report the mean number
of CA Vs, mean CA V route length, mean cu-
mulative heading change, and mean number
of background actors. InterDrive has shorter
routes and no background actors, while MDrive-
Interaction contains longer routes and more ac-
tors. MDrive-V2XPnP is distinguished by a
higher background actor density than the others,
reflecting the real-world traffic.
3.3 MDrive Toolbox
As shown in Fig. 3, we provide a set of tools to support further explorations with MDrive benchmark
and extend the benchmark for customized usage.
5
Human-in-the-Loop Simulation Interface
HumanExpertDemonstration
Throttle, brake, and steeringSimulationController
Real-to-Simulation(Real2sim)Pipeline
Agentic Scenario Generation Pipeline
DemonstrationData&ModelStressTest
Real-worldScenario
SimulationScenario
DrivingSimulator
AssetMatchingBehaviorExtractionCoordinateAlignment
AgenticScenarioProposal
ScenarioDescription
BehaviorArrangementIntended TopologyAgent&ActorInstantiation
ScenarioFeasibilityCheckSchema Validation&CARLA Validation Duplicate&DifficultyScreeningPlanner-based Filtering &Manual Review
Figure 3:Overview of the MDrive Toolbox.An open-source toolbox designed to support benchmark
construction and extension through three core modules:1) Human-in-the-Loop Simulation Interface
that enables expert takeover via physical controllers to collect the realistic demonstrations;2) Agentic
Scenario Generation Pipelinethat leverages agentic system as structured proposers to scalably
generate, validate, and curate synthetic multi-agent interactions; and3) Real2Sim Pipelinethat
reconstructs real-world V2X data into closed-loop CARLA scenarios with the digital twin.
Human-in-the-Loop Simulation InterfaceThis interface allows a human expert to control a CA V
in a running scenario while the remaining CA Vs and background actors continue to execute their
assigned action policies. Thus, the user can create customized scenarios with human demonstrations
to perform stress tests for models. We leverage this tool to create initialized scenarios per interaction
category as described in Section 3.1. The demonstration inputs are provided through a gaming
steering wheel with pedals, or a gamepad fallback, mapped to the same throttle, brake, and steering
channels that planners use, so that human-driven and policy-driven rollouts are directly comparable,
as shown in Fig. 3. See Appendix C.1 for additional details on the human-in-the-loop interface.
Agentic Scenario Generation PipelineThis pipeline is developed to further scale initialized hand-
crafted scenarios, as shown in Fig. 3. We first give ascenario description[ 66, 16] template, which
includes intended topology, behavior arrangement, and instantiation of relevant actors, by harnessing
human instructions and in-context human demonstration data. The language agent proposes several
candidate scenarios according to the category descriptions, which are then further validated using
human-specified rules in the simulator. The final outputs are exported as scenario directories following
CARLA-defined formats. See Appendix C.2 for more details for workflows and orchestrations.
Real2Sim PipelineThe MDrive-V2XPnP scenarios are produced by a Real2Sim pipeline that
converts the V2XPnP real-world data [5] into reactive CARLA scenarios. The conversion pipeline
consists of a unified scenario description that defines the data format and a digital-twin reconstruction
pipeline that aligns real-world and simulator coordinates, creates scenario layouts, and places 3D
assets for realistic scenario reconstruction. See Appendix C.3 for more details of the pipeline.
3.4 Evaluation Settings
We define an MDrivescenarioas a single executable closed-loop driving episode with fixed map
context, CA V assignments, route definitions, dynamic actors, and scene objects. In each scenario, the
agent is required to navigate to the target position, taking raw sensor data as input and outputting
planning trajectories. In the simulation, both CA V and background actors are reactive agents rolled
out in closed-loop manners. Moreover, MDrive also supports open-loop evaluation across perception
and planning, and it is simple to customize a new evaluation protocol with our toolkit.
6
Evaluation Metrics.We adopt the evaluation protocols of InterDrive [67] and the CARLA Leader-
board [68], using two metrics for closed-loop driving:(i) Driving Score (DS), which measures overall
progress and safety based on route completion and infraction scores; and(ii) Success Rate (SR), the
percentage of tasks achieving a full driving score. In open-loop evaluation, we refer to the existing
multi-agent open-loop evaluation protocols [15, 12] to adopt Average Precision (AP) with a union
threshold of 0.5 to measure perception accuracy, and leverage Average Displacement Error (ADE)
and Collision Rate (CR) to measure the planning safety and accuracy. See Section B for more details.
3.5 Scope and Sim2Real Gap Interpretation
MDrive Scope.Closed-loop cooperative driving raises a class of scientific questions,i.e., how
perception sharing, decision negotiation, and reactive background traffic jointly shape multi-agent
planning, that can only be examined under reproducible and safety-controllable conditions. MDrive
is built as a principled testbed for this purpose. Within a CARLA-based environment, MDrive
enables reactive multi-agent rollouts, controlled ablations across cooperation paradigms, and broad
coverage of long-tail interactions grounded in NHTSA pre-crash typologies [ 22], all of which
are difficult to obtain at scale and with safety guarantees in on-road data collection. To keep the
behavioral side of the loop realistic, our Real2Sim pipeline (Section 3.3) ports real-world V2XPnP
driving logs [5] into reactive CARLA scenarios, so that background traffic, vulnerable road users,
and intersection topologies inherit the distributions of real urban driving rather than hand-crafted
heuristics. MDrive-Toolbox is intentional modular, so that future improvements in sensor models,
V2X channel modeling, and scene rendering can be customized based on the community’s research
scopes, without redesigning the benchmark.
Sim2Real Gap.Though building MDrive on CARLA inevitably introduces a Sim2Real gap, the
principal value of MDrive lies in its ability to isolate causal questions about cooperation. MDrive
evaluates every policy on identical maps, routes, traffic, and weather across three complementary
buckets. It allows each performance change to be attributed to a single targeted intervention,e.g., (i)
single-agent versus multi-agent operation; (ii) perception sharing versus decision negotiation; or (iii)
open-loop versus closed-loop evaluation, while holding all other factors fixed. While we do not argue
that results from MDrive transfer directly to real-world deployment, we position MDrive as a valuable
hypothesis testing platform and enables controlled analysis for further methodological developments
from the community. The resulting insights,i.e., that closed-loop training distributions matter, that
language-grounded negotiation must remain context-aware in dense traffic, and that open-loop metrics
underdetermine closed-loop behavior (Sections 4–5.1), therefore describe properties of cooperative
driving systems themselves rather than artifacts of any particular simulator. These conclusions are
intended to guide the design and evaluation of multi-agent driving systems. We position MDrive as a
living foundation that can absorb future advances in sensor realism, V2X communication modeling,
and rendering fidelity as the Sim2Real distance continues to narrow.
4 Benchmarking State-of-the-Art Models
In this section, we present benchmark results to answer two research questions (RQ):
• RQ1:To what extent does multi-agent cooperation improve closed-loop driving over single-agent
systems, and how do the gains decompose between perception sharing and negotiation?
•RQ2:What performance gaps and new challenges for multi-agent system do MDrive expose?
We benchmark on a set of representative single-agent and multi-agent end-to-end driving models.
Single-agent driving models include UniAD [69], V AD [70], TCP [71], LMDrive [72], multi-agent
driving models include CoDriving [30], CoLMDriver [20] and its rule-based variant.
4.1 RQ1: Where Cooperation Helps
We answer RQ1 by first measuring whether cooperation benefits the final planning task in aggregate,
then decomposing the gain along the two dimensions: perception sharing and decision negotiation.
We reserve causal diagnosis of where cooperationfailsfor Section 4.2.
Cooperation enhances closed-loop driving non-trivially.According to Table 3, multi-agent models
generally perform better than single-agent systems in terms of DS and SR across different subsets.
7
Table 3:MDrive Benchmark Across Three Scenario Buckets.Avg: mean across all the scenarios.
*: rule-based planner variant.Bold, underline, and ::::wavy marks first, second, third place, respectively.
Method
Perc.Sharing
Negotiation
MDrive
MDrive-InterDrive MDrive-Interaction MDrive-V2XPnP Avg
DS↑SR↑DS↑SR↑DS↑SR↑ DS↑SR↑
Single-agent Models
TCP [71] × × 83.55 67.80 75.80 55.25 71.02 58.70 ::::76.79 60.58
UniAD [69] × × 57.48 26.40 53.08 31.10 72.55 68.48 61.04 41.99
V AD [70] × × 57.49 23.30 48.83 27.14 67.20 66.30 57.84 38.91
LMDrive [72] × × 56.74 27.10 57.45 29.08 71.56 69.57 61.92 41.92
Multi-agent Models
CoDriving [30] ✓× 83.99 66.1079.06 70.53 84.97 82.84 82.67 73.16
CoLMDriver* [20] ✓ ✓ 83.77 75.10 66.70 53.65 77.89 73.13 76.12 ::::67.29
CoLMDriver [20] ✓ ✓ 85.29 76.8567.91 51.93 78.27 75.37 77.16 68.05
Fig. 4 shows the multi-agent −single-agent gap rises from 3.54 onStatic Avoidancescenarios to
35.12 onDynamic Avoidancescenarios and 24.58 onDynamic Coordinationscenarios in terms of
Harmonic mean between DS and SR. The gain concentrates exactly where the ego must reason about
other agents’ intent under partial observability.
Perception sharing prevents planning failure from lack of observability.CoDriving posts the
highest harmonic mean on all three interactivity levels, as Fig. 4 illustrates, leading the next-best
multi-agent system by 1.68 onDynamic Avoidancescenarios and 10.63 onDynamic Coordination
scenarios. Cooperative perception expands the observable region beyond ego sensors, which leads to
better perceptual abilities that prevent policies failing due to lack of observability.
Negotiation benefits dynamic coordination.AsTable 3 shows, CoLMDriver beats all the baselines
on the negotiation-specific subset MDrive-InterDrive without background actors, and beat most of
the single agent baselines onDynamic Coordinationscenarios by 27.7, but trail CoDriving. That
indicates that negotiation works best when the conflict pair is evident and exclusive among CA Vs
only, but degradation occurs once the environment becomes complicated. We trace the cause to a
benchmark-revealed failure mode in Section 4.2.
4.2 RQ2: V2X Performance Gaps Revealed by MDrive
According to Table 3, perception-sharing-based systems such as CoDriving [ 30] and negotiation-
based systems such as CoLMDriver [20] generally perform better than their single-agent counterparts,
but discrepancies also occur where multi-agent systems might also fail to leverage the provided
information from other agents. In this section, we further analyze the potential limitations of current
multi-agent systems and shed light on future work that improves the current bottlenecks.
Figure 4:Category-wise MDrive Benchmark.Harmonic mean between Driving Score and Success
Rate on three high-level categories.
8
